---
title: "Static stripe correlations and pair-density-waves in the doped two-dimensional Hubbard model"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2026-03-17-aps-gps
venue: "APS Global Physics Summit"
slidesurl: 'https://atanjaro.github.io/files/aps_gps_2026_presentation_tanjaroonly.pdf'
date: 2026-03-17
location: "Denver, CO, USA"
---
[APS Global Physics Summit](https://summit.aps.org/events/MAR-G31/9)

The cuprate phase diagram is rich with different orders. For instance, neutron scattering experiments have revealed regions of anti-phased antiferromagnetism separated by narrow hole-rich regions. These combined spin and charge modulations are known as ’stripes’. The cuprates are also the canonical example of high-Tc superconductors known to exhibit dx2−y2 (d-wave) pairing. Recently, indications of pair-density-wave order have been observed in transport measurements of under-doped La2−xBaxCuO4 (LBCO). Recent progress in the study of strongly correlated electron systems revealed states beyond the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory of superconductivity, where Coopers pairs have zero center-of-mass momentum and a translationally invariant order parameter. The Fulde-Farrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) theory describes a more exotic state in which finite momentum pairing could occur in weakly interacting systems in the presence of a magnetic field. We present a variational Monte Carlo study of the interplay of static stripe order with FFLO pair-density-waves in the two-dimensional doped Hubbard model. We examine spin and charge correlation functions and map out a schematic phase diagram.
